.Dd December 22, 2008
.Os Ubuntu
.ds volume-operating-system Ubuntu
.Dt OEM\-CONFIG 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm oem\-config
.Nd perform end-user configuration after initial OEM installation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl frontend Ar frontend
.Op Fl Fl debug
.Op Fl Fl pdb
.Op Fl Fl cdebconf
.Op Fl Fl old\-tzmap
.Op Fl Fl only
.Op Fl Fl query
.Sh DESCRIPTION
OEM distributors of Ubuntu often wish to pre-install the operating system.
However, as well as physically installing files onto disk, the Ubuntu
installer also does a certain amount of user-specific configuration: it sets
up the default language, a user account, and so on.
After delivering a system to an end user,
.Nm
may be used to ask these configuration questions again, and reconfigure the
system accordingly.
.Pp
.Nm
must be run as root.
.Pp
.Nm
has multiple frontends, including one written for GTK+
.No ( Li gtk_ui ) ,
one written for KDE
.No ( Li kde_ui ) ,
and one that simply asks questions using debconf
.No ( Li debconf_ui ) .
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl f , Fl Fl frontend Ar frontend
Use
.Ar frontend
rather than the automatically-detected default.
.It Fl d , Fl Fl debug
Run in debugging mode, sending verbose information to
.Pa /var/log/oem\-config.log
that may be useful to developers.
.Em Note that passwords will be logged in debugging mode!
.It Fl Fl pdb
Drop into the Python debugger in the event of a crash.
Only effective if
.Nm
is being run from a terminal.
.It Fl Fl cdebconf
Use
.Ic cdebconf
instead of the traditional Perl
.Ic debconf
implementation.
In future this may provide enough memory efficiency benefits to be made the
default, but for now it is not really worthwhile and is therefore for
experimental use only.
.It Fl Fl old\-tzmap
Use the old timezone map widget.
(This only applies to the
.Li gtk_ui
frontend.)
.It Fl Fl only
Tell
.Nm
that it is the only desktop program running so that it can customize its
user interface to better suit a minimal environment.
.It Fl q , Fl Fl query
Instead of asking questions, print the name of the default frontend to
standard output and exit.
.El
.Sh CUSTOMISATION
(This section is due for expansion.)
.Pp
Scripts in the
.Pa /usr/lib/oem\-config/post\-install
directory will be run before
.Nm
exits.
Their file names must not contain
.Dq \&. ,
so that files such as
.Dq foo.dpkg\-new
are avoided.
They will be run under the control of the
.Sq noninteractive
debconf frontend (see
.Xr debconf 7 ) .
At present error exit statuses will be ignored, but this may change, so
these
.Dq hook scripts
should make sure to exit zero on success.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Colin Watson Aq cjwatson@ubuntu.com
.An Anirudh Ramesh
.An Evan Dandrea Aq evand@ubuntu.com
.Pp
.An -nosplit
.Nm
is copyright \(co 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
.An Canonical Ltd . ,
and
copyright \(co 2006, 2007
.An Anirudh Ramesh .
See the GNU General Public License version 2 or later for copying
conditions.
A copy of the GNU General Public License is available in
.Pa /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL .
